the shallows are only a tiny part of the
marine world 90% of it is open water
[Music]
it's currents carry life for thousands
of kilometres
the Masters of this nomadic existence
are jellyfish a life spent drifting in
the empty ocean could be a lonely one
but not for this jellyfish Aurelia
swarms like this are not accidental
these individuals all hatched together
when the temperature and currents were
just right
their timing has ensured that they can
make the most of feeding on a late
summer plankton bloom
[Music]
Genovese have no brain and no blood but
they do have ice boats that enable them
to tell the difference between light and
dark and they can move independently of
the current by a simple form of jet
propulsion
[Music]
all jellyfish have stinging tentacles
with which to catch their food as they
pulse their bodies the tentacles trap
plankton which is then passed towards
their mouth in the center
[Music]
a swarm of 100,000 stinging jellyfish
might seem a daunting prospect for a
predator but not for this one a huge
fried-egg jellyfish it is a killer
it's weapons are harpoon-like cells that
cover its tentacles
when they come into contact with a
victim they spirit
[Music]
the fried egg then holds in its prey
a few lucky aurélia do manage to pull
themselves free
but for the majority there's only one
outcome
death
[Music]